Welcome back to the next chapter of
search produced by SEO week and high
pole rank. I am so excited. If you
haven't already gotten your tickets,
we're talking end of April the 28th to
May 1st, New York City. We have 40
amazing speakers across SEO, data, AI,
content, digital strategy, you name it.
Check it out. Today I'm joined by Mr.
Prolific, been doing it forever and he
is like deep deep deep in AI right now.
I'm joined by Will Reynolds who's the
founder and CEO at Seir Interactive.
What is up Will? How you doing man? I'm
having a wonderful morning dude it is it
is a fun time to be in SEO to be an AI
things are nuts but last 12 to 24 months
have been nuts. What's your perspective
on the current state of
search? I think search is screwed. I
think answers are alive and well. So I
think if you have branded yourself as a
search person and a search optimizer
then you have attached your ego and your
your your kudos your your image your
self-image to I optimize for
search. If you have attached yourself to
I want to help people find answers it's
a great time to be alive because then
I'm not trying to defend randomly SEO or
search engine stuff or looking for data
points that go see people are still
searching. It's like nah like it's it's
like I think in certain verticals
because that's the other thing searching
dead or alive like I'm seeing so much
difference between verticals on how much
people are are not adopting AI that it's
a great time because you're playing the
bet with your client and being like how
do I track this to see when that number
gets big enough that we should pay
attention but the numbers are actually
telling me that that AI [á__á] ain't where
your people are at right now. So let's
not invest and let's just do SEO the way
we're supposed to do it. But then let's
be prepared for it and set up the early
warning signals. That is where I think
we all should have been from the
beginning. And I'm looking forward to
that being the destination where we end
up. And I think SEOs could be the right
people to be there, but I'm not sure
we're going to be the right people to
end up there. I freaking love it because
it's it's a mindset shift. We're so used
to framing it one way. We have to think
more expansively, which kind of leads
right into your whole perspective and
your SEO week, which is all about
authentic intelligence. Can you speak to
what you'll be presenting and kind of
like why people should check out what
you're what what you're laying down?
Sure. So, um it's so funny. I've been
watching my old Mazcon presentations and
I'm basically like damn I said this same
stuff in 2013 14 15 cuz the RCS
presentation dropped in 2012. we're
we're 13 years later and I was like oh
two years after that I got on stage and
said I watched people go through the SER
and I asked them questions about why are
you clicking on what you're clicking on.
So for 13 uh for 11 years I've been
doing that kind of research which means
I'm starting to understand people and
humans and what makes people trust sites
not trust sites whereas we're looking at
domain authority and never heard a
person like most SEOs have never watched
a freaking person
go through the process of trying to find
an answer and talk back on the quality
of the answers they got. So therefore,
what do you do? You optimize for search.
When you hear how people think about
things, you go, "Oh my god." So those
little seeds have been planted for years
and now we just get a chance to deploy
what I've been trying to do and trying
to bring in for years. And you're like,
"This is how people are going to start
to think about these things." So for me,
man, like that's like the biggest thing
is it's like, man, it's a great time to
be into human psychology. How do people
find their answers to their problems?
What makes people trust certain answers
more than others? Before, we could get
you a number one ranking without doing
none of that. Now, I think it's going to
potentially reward some of that kind of
work more than it has been rewarded in
the last 10 years or so. I love it. the
technology is is catching up and
changing search behavior and it's
getting harder to monitor. Like it it
really is but at the same time it's that
much more important. So what the hell do
people do? Like what do you do right
now? All right. So to me this is hard
because I think so many of us want to
know what do I do right now? And I'm
like change your worldview and it's like
oh that's not an easy answer. Like your
worldview should have been I help people
to find answers. Too many of our
worldview was like here's how to build a
thousand pages at scale that sound like
they were like kind of almost kind of
written by a human and I put it through
check. No. No. So like for right now
we're building and we're optimizing
pages on our site to to perform better
in LLMs. The thing that I'm doing right
now is interviewing my team members that
worked on those projects and pulling out
snippets of stories that when somebody
who actually has to pick a freaking
agency clicks on our page at an industry
level, they're like, "Oh, you're about
that life." Because you would not have a
story like that unless you were actually
sleeves rolled up in my industry.
Most people are like, "Yo, how can I get
the semantic relevance to show that I
look like blah blah blah?" And I'm like,
"I'm not trying to be semantically
relevant. I'm trying to be relevant for
humans." And I think the other thing
that we're seeing is everybody's so
hyped about AI right
now. I'm like, I'm hyped about the
authentic intelligence AI because I
think at the end of the day, search is
search is cluttered with crap.
AI ain't that much better because it's
going to give you the average answer.
How many of us wake up to get the
average agency? How many of us wake up
to be average people? How many of us
want to get the average of whatever?
Most of us don't want to be there. So, I
don't care how much you prompt it. At
the end of the day, I would rather have
an answer from Garrett Susman than chat
GPT on a lot on topics that you're that
you have expertise on. Right? So, it's
like, well, I'm going to be showing how
like I'm growing the business by
actually finding out where are humans
saying read this [á__á] from Seir and
saying I'm okay losing the search
traffic cuz I don't know what those
people are coming here for.
If you are getting a link from SEO FOMO,
if you're getting a link from search
engine land, if you're getting a link
from Microsoft Teams, how many B2B SEOs
right now are not tracking which you
which URLs are getting traffic from
Microsoft Teams and Slack? Because those
are humans somewhere in an enterprise
sharing your [á__á] That is so much more
valuable than some I got 10 clicks on
this where I don't know who those people
were. Give me 10 enterprise people going
to one of my pages over a thousand
people going to how to fix uh how to
find your site map, your XML sitemap.
Like nah, I'm done with that. I love it.
I love it. And and it speaks to what
Ryan is doing with with audience
research and understanding where your
people are spending time. You're all
about it. So like kind of leads to what
what's next. We we were talking right
before this about, you know,
personalization and just such a better
search experience with like chat GPT for
instance. What do you think the next few
years will look like for finding
answers?
So, I will say it through the lens of
what I'm trying to build for my own
business because that's how you know
it's [á__á] real and authentic. Bring
it. I'm hoping cuz I don't really run
the business. Um, so I'm hoping to
convince Crystal to allow me to build an
organic social practice at Seir.
What's that? That's where I think this
is going because I think people want
answers from freaking people, yo. And AI
is only going to make it sound more like
you know me. Now all of a sudden, back
in the day, you had to do real research
on me to write me a good email. Now you
can be like, I'm writing an email to
Will. How should I personalize it? So
now everybody's going to sound like they
know you, right? What if I actually am a
person that you've seen over years? Like
people will say things about me when
they hit me up like, I've been following
Will. I I've been following you for X
long. I've been watching your post over
years. I authentically feel like you're
that guy on this thing. That's why I'm
referring this person to you. That's why
I'm doubling down on authentic
intelligence because it's the optimal
end
state. Is that for everyone? Um is that
are you talking cuz in SEO and search we
always talk about like generalizations.
Do you think that works in the context
of the small business owner mom and pop
all the way to the big enterprise with
like celebrity endorsements? How do you
think across different industries and
business sizes? I think humans I read a
lot about I read a lot more about humans
in psychology than I do about SEO and
and [á__á] like that. I think humans want
to connect with other
humans. And if somebody wants to fight
me on that, bring it.
There you go. Good luck with your AI
girlfriend. Good luck with your
character AI girlfriend. You only have a
charact You only have a girlfriend on
character AI because you weren't able to
get a real one in real life. you haven't
learned the life skills to like deal
with the push and pull of trying to make
a human happy and want them to spend
time with you. So now you're just going
to outsource that to AI so that you can
just say whatever you want to somebody
and they can just answer you and come on
dog, right? So to me it's like we got to
get back to this human component which
is where the
authenticity of your intelligence will
ring through. So for me I think like who
would you last Moscon I was on stage
showing how I bought a Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles video game uh pinball game
for my kids, right?
And I showed a video of the guys who I
bought it from. They dressed up like
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles to do the
unboxing and to talk about all the flaps
and the flippers and how all that [á__á]
worked. I'm buying from those
[á__á] because you could tell
they love the process of opening up a
pinball machine and delivering it to a
family. They loved it as humans. Now,
could I have bought that from somebody
who optimized a website to show up for
Teenage Mut Ninja Turtles pinball game?
Yes. But once I click on all 10 of them,
who are you going to buy from if the
pricing is almost all the
same? I'm going to buy the I'm going to
buy my pinball game from the guys that
when I emailed this guy, cuz one, my
left flipper just broke a couple days
ago. I emailed the owner of that
business at 1000 p.m. at night. He got
back to me at 10:15. You know why? Cuz
he loves what pinball does for families.
That's different than a guy who's like,
"Yo, I run this pinball company so I can
make a lot of money and I can make a fat
margin and sell it someday." Like that
authenticity will eventually show
itself, right? So that's why I'm
doubling down on that's a pinball
machine. That's a local freaking company
that sold me a pinball machine. So I
feel like this is going back to some
like Main Street type [á__á] where like
people knew you on Main Street and you
had a hardware store on Main Street and
the person was like, "Yo, last time you
came in you were trying to fix that pool
or whatever. Yo, I got this new thing
for you. Like, like you you want to buy
more from people like that because they
feel like they're invested in you and
they care about you and they care about
their craft. So, like I think that
whether it's B2B, B T B T B T B T B T B
T B T B T B T B T B toC, big business,
small
business. Honestly, we still like to buy
from humans. That's why when people are
like agent someday, this is super like
controversial for some people. I'm like
I don't think an agent is going to pick
somebody's agency.
I don't think a company's going to go,
you know what, like, oh, I'm just going
to put an RFP and let everybody answer
it and I'm gonna have an agent like go
through all the answers and I could be
wrong and I could lose my whole business
because of this. Right? I believe there
will be enough people in the market who
are like, I want to talk to these
people. I want to see how many people,
you know, how many people are like, "Yo,
can I meet the team I'm going to work
on?" But wait, we told you all the
answers. We told you all the answers,
dog. Like, all the answers are in the
RFP. We answered all your questions. Why
would you want to meet the humans? Cuz
we're [á__á] humans. And then now you
get to see who are these people that are
going to work on my project. Are they
smart? Are they compassionate? How do
they carry themselves? Like all that
matters in a deal. AI, an agent that
picks the agency for your SEO project or
whatever ain't going to do that. I don't
think that people are just going to I'm
going to wake up like if you are a I was
buying um a charger, an international
charger, right?
This is the most commoditized effing
thing. You know, I still spend 10
minutes on Amazon trying to figure out
which one I wanted and blah blah blah
blah blah. Like, so for me, I think that
this concept of we want to buy from
other humans is a is a bet that I'm
going to make small investments in in
2025. And the reason why is because it's
the presentation I'm doing, Gary. Mhm.
My traffic dropped
45% from search,
but my business grew 10%. And it wasn't
on like I closed one client, we had more
leads than we had before, blah blah
blah. So then you're like, well, what's
happening? What's happening? How can you
lose all this traffic and grow your
business? I thought those two things
didn't match up. And you go, oh, what
happened? I went from my lowest point in
November
2023, I had 239 people get to my website
from LinkedIn. In February of
2025, I had 5,200.
And you know what happens when you win
on LinkedIn and not on some [á__á]
LinkedIn comments, link on my comments
to answer me. Like that's fake. You the
problem when people say [á__á] like that
is you are faking your actual influence.
So you don't know if you're that
influential or if you faked it, got a
bump and can't sustain it. So that's why
I don't do none of that [á__á] because
then I get to see when my [á__á] is [á__á]
Oh damn, I put this post out. I didn't
ask Rand to push it cuz I want to find
out from real humans whether or not it's
good or not. So then I can go back to
the lab and try to make it better. If I
ask Ran and Mike to push a post that I
wrote, it's going to artificially
inflate the value of that freaking post,
which then means I can't decipher
whether or not it was really that
[á__á] good. So for me, it's like I'm
going to be breaking down in my
presentation a lot of the little things
I did along the way that made me be
like, "Oh my god, authentic intelligence
for my own business where I can share
all the tactics, all the numbers is how
I ended up making those connections." So
I know that's a long-winded answer, but
it's a tough question to answer. Short,
we're talking about the future of
freaking search. We're talking about a
20-year industry, 25 year industry being
disrupted and we're trying to figure out
what that looks like. It's hard to put
that into like a, you know, a two-c
answer. Sorry. No, no, no. It's like,
it's like you said, worldview and I keep
thinking I think I keep thinking about
brand and people buy from people and
this idea that you do this for a long
enough time that every time you put
something out and they're like, "Oh,
we'll dropped another thing." That's so
interesting. The next time they are
ready to do an agency, they're not
people don't even want to have to like
look to 50 million options. They want to
find the one they know. And and
heruristics, it's psychology. It's like,
not that we're lazy, but we want we want
to just not make a mistake and pick
something we trust out of the gate. And
that's going to be Will. Referrals, dog.
Mhm. Like, I don't know about most
people. My my business is different, but
my whole business has grown. All I know
cuz I'm not good at selling. I don't
like selling people on stuff and trying
to get you to buy my stuff. I like being
who I am and then letting you choose
whether or not that connects. Well, if
you look at referrals, referrals, why do
we want referrals? Cuz we're humans. We
want a person that we trust to say,
"I've worked with those people. You
should talk to them." That lead on paper
could be the exact same as somebody who
searched SEO agency and then hit your
lead form and said, "I have a $100,000
budget." Trust me, dog, the value of
those two leads are entirely freaking
different. There you go. Yeah. I mean,
you're going to get you see Will talk at
SEO week. It's going to be freaking
huge. Thank you so much, man. It's it's
just awesome to talk and, you know, just
kind of get your perspective cuz you're
always like five steps ahead and you
always keep it real and you always are
about like what's important, which is
family, people, life. It's messy. Thanks
again. I appreciate it. You got it, man.
Thanks for having me. Thanks. Have a
good one, guys.
